Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
for all hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 558. In this
episode, Scott talks with dr.
Henry segment about visualizing mathematics
with three D printing. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes today. I'm talking with
dr. Henry . He works
at the department of mathematics
at Oklahoma state, and he
has a great website called
three D print math, where
you can learn about his
book, visualizing mathematics with three
D printing. How are you
sir, for doing free? Well,
thanks. Yeah, I, so the
website is, I mean, it's
sort of a sister to
the book, right? It's, it's
maybe not so much in
the ad as, as you
know, it's like the book
really uses like three D
models and you want to
be able to see those
models virtually at least on
the website. So you, you
want to really use the
two together? No, absolutely. I
mean, and this, this, this
book is, is a book
that you would use in
class, but I also kind
of as a three D
printer fan myself, this is
almost like the coffee table
book for three D printers
and math. Yeah, I mean,
right. So I haven't actually
taught with it yet. It's
I view it more like
a popular math book, but
you know, people who are
interested, you know, maybe know
a little bit of math,
but you shouldn't need much
in terms of background and
it doesn't really a textbook
it's sort of conversational and
here's some cool ideas and,
you know, use the, the,
these three D printed models
to show what's going on.
And yeah, it doesn't go
into, you know, there's not
a lot of technical notation,
but there's some interesting ideas
and some things you might
have to think about, but
yeah, when did, when did
this is, this is just
a practice. Is this a
must get discovered? I mean
like the three D printing
is burgeoning and, and, you
know, math certainly is not
well, right? It's not, it's
not starting up. I mean,
math is well, so there's
something of a, it's got
something of a, a reputation
or an unwanted that mathematics
is sort of written in
stone. And what happens is
it gets passed down to,
you know, students and, you
know, what is it the
professional mathematicians do anyway, they're
just doing more hard sums.
And that's really not the
case. I mean, there's, there's
new mathematics getting invented all
the time and that's what
mathematicians do. So, you know,
there's new stuff happening all
the time and, and new
ways of thinking and about
mathematics. And it's often useful
to have a three D
print, for example, something to
visualize some idea. So, yeah,
I mean, so three D
printing has been around, at
least since the eighties, it
was originally used in manufacturing
or design. And I guess
only in the last few
years, as it got accessible
to people in the general
public and academics and so
on. And so, you know,
that combination of take something
that's mathematical and try and
produce a model of it.
That's got a lot easier
now that there's three printing
than, than, than it was
before. So I'm in around
the turn of the previous
century. So 1900, there are
a bunch of people who
are sort of getting into
making plasta models and models
out of string and warden,
so on, and those are
still around, but it's a
lot harder to do, you
know, if you have to
sort of make it from
scratch, whereas if you've got
a three D printer, then
it's yeah, well, it's, it's
a lot more accessible. Interesting.
So you're saying that if
I go back to the,
you know, the early days,
if I go a hundred
years back, yeah. I'll be
doing my math on a
chalkboard on paper, you know,
in, in pairs, in groups
and they were themselves building
models so that they might
get there. Yeah. So, so
there's another sort of interesting
thing throughout mathematical history is
sort of whether or not
you want to draw pictures
and make models has gone
in and out of fashion.
So, so there were people
back in the day, making
plastic models of algebra accepts
is who knows what and
beautiful, fantastic craftsmanship. And I
mean, given the technology at
the time difficult to do,
and then there was a,
there was a long dark
period when people decided, well,
you know, pictures are sort
of squirrely, right? You can,
you can think that you're
seeing something when actually, you
know, it's not, it's not
really rigorous that the argument
doesn't quite follow the you're
not drawing all of the
different cases. And so there
was a long period when
sort of pictures and diagrams
were frowned upon, and maybe
there's this sort of in
the modern era, you know,
people are saying, well, you
know, there's different ways to
do things. And you want
to find different ways to
communicate, say mathematics, different ways
of communicating work for different
people. And so for some
people, the pictures are really,
really helpful. And so, yeah,
it's, it's come back in
and out of fashion. And
I guess at the moment,
there's a lot of, you
know, emphasis on how do
you get people into STEM
subjects? And so, so people
sort of, well, whatever goes
right. I mean, if you
can find something that interests
people then go for it.
Interesting. So it almost is
a matter of how to
different people think there's public.
There are probably math people
who are for lack of
a better word, a little
more snooty that they're like,
well, we don't need to
visualize this. Right. Surely surely
you can hold that. You
know, that three manifold There's,
I mean, there's plenty of
mathematics that doesn't require pictures
at all. I mean, mathematics
is a very broad endeavor
and, you know, there's some
things we agree on, right?
You should always need to
prove things, any of your
statements, but the kinds of
objects that people think about,
you know, very hugely the,
the, this, this is another
sort of unusual thing about
mathematics as a subject is,
you know, I don't really
know what the guy in
the next door office does.
Right. It's sort of too
far away from what I
do for me to really
be, I, you know, I
know the broad outlines, but
very, very broad. And so,
yeah, I mean, there's, there's
somebody down the hall who
never draws any pictures at
all. Whereas I'm drawing pictures
all the time. And a
lot of the priests that
I write are in terms
of pictures, you, you know,
you, you have some sort
of, you have some sort
of common tutorial diagram and
you say, well, you know,
if I do this kind
of move, then this thing
happens, right. It's it's the,
the argument is infectious. And
for a lot of people,
no pictures at all ever.
Yeah. Was the first person
who really got excited about
visualizing things physically. Was it
Felix Klein in the late
eighties? I mean, I would
go back to the prehistoric
era. I mean, it's, it's
sort of hard to see.
Right. Well, so the, the
Greeks, the ancient Greeks were
very into, you know, geometry.
I mean, that was sort
of the first, you know,
that the Euclidean geometry was
maybe the, the really first
instance of what we'd think
of as rigorous mathematics, where
you actually prove things rather
than, you know, just sort
of, there's plenty of mathematics
in Babylonian times and so
on where you need to
calculate, you know, areas of
land or, or, or taxes
or whatever it is, but
they weren't proving things back
then. But yeah, so the
Greeks, you know, 2000 BC
maybe don't quote me on
that. We're, we're drawing pictures
and he goes, it goes
back even further than that.
So there were sort of
neolithic carvings on stone that
appear to be, you know,
there's sort of, there's a,
there's a stone which sort
of carved in with nodules
and it looks like it's
a cube or maybe a
dodecahedron, there's some debate over
exactly what was going on.
And it, we don't have
any, any history of that,
but people were, you know,
saying here's this pattern of
dots on a sphere, which
sort of looks like a
cube back in, you know,
before any written history was
there at all. Hmm. When,
when Klein in Germany went
and drew and created these
plaster molds, then they started
to manufacture them. Right. And
give them, like, it seems
like you could go to
all the work of doing
this yourself, but that would
be a lot of, that'd
be a lot of, yeah.
Right. Right. Well, I mean,
and it's amazing, you know,
that the craftsmanship of how
they did it, they, so
you, you're building some shape
of some surface out of
plasta, as I understand it,
what they did is they,
they did it in slices.
So they would, you know,
very carefully plot out, you
know, he has, he has
a slice at a particular
height and they would have
to figure out what the
contour line was and, you
know, cut that out or
whatever it is they had
to do and then stack
them up and then somehow
smooth it down. But yeah,
very, very hard work these
days, of course, with three
D printing, it's a lot
easier, there's all kinds of
programs and we can write
your own programs to generate
the, the geometry and then
get it three D printed
and yet much, much easier.
Yeah. That was my, kind
of my, my subquestion there
was looking at this and
thinking about there's no computers,
there's, there's minimal mechanical help.
Is there not to get
it right. Right. Well, back
in yeah. 1900 or so.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, right.
Well, the, the, the modern
computer certainly didn't exist back
then. Yeah. So it was
just sort of hand calculation
and, and, and they came
out with these amazing things.
Yeah. I mean, I can,
I'm trying to put this
in the context of someone
who is, you know, who
did college math and then
stopped. Right. You know, and
I understand how tedious it
would be to, you know,
take a parabola and plot
it out, you know, in
some detail in just two
dimensions. Right. And then you
add two or three and
then Just stack them up.
Well, I mean, somehow this
is, this is just more
general, more generally true, right.
That people spend a long
time doing things that now
we wouldn't want to wait,
you know, a half an
hour Patience, patience existed in
the old days. So all
of these stories of people
calculating, you know, the N
digit of PI or something,
and, or one of these,
you know, just calculate out
this thing that today you
can run in, you know,
seconds on a computer and,
you know, somewhere in year
three, they made a mistake
and all of the digits
afterwards of wrong, you know,
I mean, it's just, I
guess a, you know, I
mean, looking back, right. It's,
it's a, yeah, it was
a, it was a slower
time and the same with,
with, with math research and
just the flow of ideas,
you know, back then, the
way that things happened was
that, you know, people would
send letters to each other
via snail, snail mail, and
maybe they'd wait for, you
know, a publication to come
out in a journal. And
you know, that the, if,
if the, if the journal
was well, this is still
sort of true. If the
journal is in Russia, then
you know, it doesn't, it
doesn't make it over to
the English speaking world or
the French speaking world for
another 20 years or so.
And now, you know, so
there's electronic archives where people
figure something out and they
posted on, on the, the
archive. And, you know, the
email gets sent out to
everybody who's following that subject
and people know about it,
you know, the next day.
So yeah, things are much,
much faster than it used
to be at well. So
has the world of visualizing
mathematics with three D printing
exploded with the idea that
I can go to home
Depot and buy a three
D printer? I dunno if
it's exploded as, I mean,
I mean, well, three D
printing as you know, is,
is getting to be more
and more mainstream. I'm the
combination of the two, I
don't know, there's a few
people sort of doing this
and figuring out how to,
you know, how do I
teach a class using three
D prints? How do I
teach a math class? I
think there's a lot of
intersections between what any new
technology and an academic subject
there's going to be, well,
how can I use do
this? I mean, I've also
started thinking about using virtual
reality or augmented reality for
this kind of thing. And,
you know, it's sort of,
well, whatever, w w what
is a good way to
use this technology to do
something that couldn't be done
before to reach other people?
So, yeah, I mean, I
guess my, my, the question
underneath that is when you're
hanging out, wherever mathematicians hung
out, you know, in the,
in the mathematician, you know,
kitchen at a conference or
at a conference, and you're,
and you're going on about
how you just built something
and it's with a three
D printer and how it
helped you understand it, or
to help the class understand
it. Okay. Do the other
mathematicians look at you like,
Oh, you know, Henry, This,
this, I mean that you
get both. Right. And it
depends. So I, you know,
a lot of people are
really excited and, you know,
want to get hold of
a model of, of something
that I've made or, or
quite a few of the
things I've made come out
of conversation, whereas where somebody
is like, you know, so
the start of all of
my talks, I spend 10
minutes explaining this thing. If
only I had a model,
then I could just sort
of show people. And then
they tell me what the
thing is. And we try
and work out how to
make a model. So yes,
there's, some people are really
enthusiastic and particularly, I guess
people think in pictures, there
is some resistance. And, and
there's just, this is sort
of a more general thing.
There's some resistance to communicating
with the outside world in
a sense. I mean, there
was some, there were some,
well, yeah, there was some
mathematicians who were like, well,
you know, if you, if
you didn't make it, if
you're not at least a
graduate student, then you never
got on to sand what
I do. So there's not
really any point in talking
to you. I mean, you
know, I may be exaggerating
a little, well, yeah. But
I mean, there's a lot
of mathematics, which, I mean,
I mean, I'm lucky, right.
In a sense that the
area that I've gone into
lends itself to an illustration,
which can be appreciated by
members of the, the general
public. And there's lots of
very beautiful, you know, meaningful
and difficult mathematics, which you
can see unless you've spent,
you know, at least a
couple of years in graduate
school to understand what the
objects are that we're talking
about. So, you know, that
there's not necessarily a Royal
road to the mathematics that
you're interested in, in some
cases there is well on
the, you can get a
sense of things. And in
some cases, that just isn't
true, which isn't to say
that the stuff that, that,
that, that people are doing
isn't useful. I mean, you
can't really tell, or, you
know, good, right. You can't
tell what's going to be
useful down the line. And
well, there's this whole other
debate of, are we doing
mathematics because it's useful to
society, or are we doing
mathematics because for its own
sake, you know, as a,
as a sort of art
form in a way, but
yeah. I mean, if you,
if you want to go
the useful route, then it's,
it's impossible to tell what's
going to be useful a
hundred years down the line.
This is exactly what people
need in order to solve
whatever problem they're trying to
solve. Well, Thinking about it,
there's the artistic, you know,
benefits of it. There's the
practical applications of it. Right.
But, you know, just using
one of your videos as
an example, and I would
encourage people to go and
check out your YouTube channel.
You have one that's called
tetrahedral racks, tetrahedral rack, tetrahedral
racks. And it's, it looks
like, you know, it's almost
like a kind of gear
on three different axes, but
it moves in a way
that this is what got
my Cool. Yeah. So, so
I mean, maybe just to
describe what's going on for,
for people who haven't seen
the video. So it's, it's
a three D printed mechanism
and as these four different
kind of rod pieces that
slide into each other, well,
actually each, each of these
rods has sort of three
different sticks on it and
they've got teeth like gear
teeth. Well, so, so rack
is, is so like a
rack and pinion mechanism is
where you have sort of
an ordinary gear, like a
circular gear, then it's, then
it's, the teeth are pushing
a straight beam, which has
teeth in it as well.
So you can move this.
So this changes between sort
of rotational and translational movement
anyways. So that's racks, that's
what, that's what the term
means. And so there's these
four of these, and they're
arranged in the symmetries of
a tetrahedron, so tetrahedral racks
and all four of them
somehow move through each other
in this sort of complicated
way. So, I mean, so,
right. So this is, this
is maybe closer to art
than, than mathematics will perhaps
engineering, right? I mean, there
was sort of a, an
engineering challenge. Can you make
geared things that move in
this way and can only
move in this way? But
yeah, it produces this surprising
motion. I mean, I guess,
I don't know if the
question is, is this useful
for anything or is it
What I'm saying is that
when I look at that,
or there's another video you
have on number file called
three gears are possible where,
you know, one might say,
this doesn't look practical, but
it is a kind of
three dimensionals constrained gear that
might very well be possible
or would be useful rather.
Well, someone might be looking
at that from a manufacturing
perspective and saying, that's exactly
what I needed. I didn't
even know that was possible.
It's possible. I mean, you
know, I, frankly I'd be
skeptical because you know, the,
the, well to the, the,
I mean, both of these,
these mechanisms and other things
I've done, you know, I'm
not worrying about it, you
know, efficiently transferring force, of
course, you know, so if
you want something to be
actually part of a motor,
there's all kinds of other
things that you need to
need to worry about. So
I'm sort of more interested
in just like, what are
the possibilities, but yeah, absolutely.
I mean, you know, these
good, if not this mechanism,
then, then be an inspiration
for somebody else to, to
say, Oh wait, maybe I
can modify what I'm working
on using this idea or
something like that. I mean,
well, just, just the sort
of broader point there, you
know, what is, what is
math good for you? You
don't necessarily model the real
world very well, right? You
model sorta aspects of it.
And this is one of
the ways in which you
can sort of see that
math started is you've got
the real world is complicated
and messy and you take
some aspect of it and
you, you say, okay, if
I throw all of this
stuff, all the other stuff
away, then I can actually
say something, I can actually
prove something. Right. But, and
then maybe that is useful.
And maybe it isn't, and
then you sort of get
interested in the, in the,
you know, the questions and
the, the, the setting in
its own. Right. And then
maybe it comes back into
contact with the real world
later, or maybe not. That's
also cool. What are the
other thing that I'm finding
fascinating. And again, please do
forgive my lack of proper
math, but there's a, the,
the, the dementia, the addition
of, of other dimensions that
dimensionality of this has been
amazing. So starting with the,
with the racks or the
gears where the extra dimension
is time you're seeing and
experiencing something, that's, three-dimensional moving
through time, you can move
it with your own body.
So as, as a learner,
it's very, it's very kinesthetic.
You know, it, it reinforces
what you already know or
what you think you already
know, so that the addition
of time seems really powerful,
but then you also have
a whole series on four
space. Yeah. Something looks cool,
and then you look at
it as a shadow and
then it looks impossibly. Cool.
So, I mean, just on
the sort of point of
kinesthetic. So I think there's
a really good point though.
Like, you know, what is
three D printing good for,
as, you know, if you're
looking around and saying, what
can I do with this
thing that I can't do
in some other medium than
the you're able to touch
it, you're able to, to,
you know, see it in
your full stereo vision in
real life. The bandwidth of
reality is really good. So,
so, so yeah, that, that's,
that's an, so you can,
you can get quite that
sort of level of fidelity
with, you know, a fancy
computer animation or something. So,
so, yeah, so, so I,
you know, I liked three
D printed things, you know,
you can that move and
you can move with your
own hands so that you're
not just watching a movie
of something. And also, you
know, there's some interaction with,
with the real world to
say, I mean, you mentioned
these, these shadow things. So
there was sort of two
different levels here. So this
casting shadows of three-dimensional things
onto the two dimensional table
with an actual physical lights,
right? So, so this sort
of goes into the, again,
the, the, the three D
printing is an object in
the real world, and you
understand bits of plastic and
you understand, you know, a,
a flashlight. And so, you
know, it's real in a
way that a computer animation
of some shadows is less
real somehow. So, so, so
that's the one point that,
you know, casting shadows from
2d, some, sorry, from 3d
to Tootie. And then as
you say, the sort of
the next level up is
casting shadows of four dimensional,
some things into three dimensions,
which, you know, we don't
have, as far as we
know, physical four dimensional things,
but we can imagine what
they will be like, and
we can calculate what their
shadows would be like. So,
right. So shadows take you
from something dimensional thing too,
as something minus one dimensional
thing. So if you have
afforded to you who cast
a shadow down into the,
under the table, which is
three D, which is a
three dimensional slice through four
dimensional space, and then, then
it's in three dimensions, so
I can print it. So
Leah, that that's right. So
I guess this is another
direction that mathematicians or some
acquisitions go is, is try
and figure out what's going
on in, in other contexts.
Right. I understand two dimensional
geometry. I understand three dimensional
geometry. Well, what happens if
I try doing it with
four and one of the
ways to try and see
what's going on is, is
this sort of casting shadows,
and there's, there's a few
other checks it's sort of
difficult because, Mmm. We did
not evolve in a world
which had any four-dimensional things
in it. So, so, you
know, our visualization skills need
a lot of help to,
to try and get some
sort of sense of what's
going on. Have you ever
made something or printed something
where you didn't fully understand
what you were going to
get until you got the
led and projected? So well,
so, so this is the,
the flashlight chatter thing. I
mean, so, so, so this
one, those ones, I, I,
well, usually what happens is
I know what the shadow
is going to be first.
And then I make the
three D object that's going
to cast that shadow as
a result. Right. So I
already know what I want
to draw, but that sort
of broader question was it,
I guess there's two levels
of that question. One, when
I finally get the 3d
pen in my hand, do
I notice something new and
too, there's this sort of
step of an even when
I, when it appears on
my computer screen and I've
drawn this thing in three
dimensions, do I see something
new and both of those
can happen? Yeah. So, so
an example, when, so, so
I mostly use Shapeways, so
that selective laser centering fancy
stuff, rather than that kind
of desktop. So you prefer
to order your three D
prints. I mean, I sort
of started out that way.
I was sort of cheaper
to start up and, you
know, the quality's really nice
sort of the, you know,
centered plastic. You don't really
see the layers so much
and it kind of has.
Yeah. I mean, it's a
really nice aesthetic. The downside
is you can sort of
iterate very quickly because, you
know, it takes a week
for them to send you
something. But yeah, I mean,
the, the, the, the, the
shape way stuff is, is,
is really nice. And it
sort of has this sort
of is this white plastic
that sort of it's matte,
you don't really see how
it was made. And it's
just, it has a sort
of, almost kind of almost
other worldly in, in some
ways, right. It, it doesn't
look like, it looks like
it's sort of just made
out of, of prime primordial
substance. Right. And it doesn't,
it doesn't look like it,
it just looks like geometry.
And, and for, for displaying
the mathematics, that's sort of
what you want. You just
want it to be, yeah,
That's a really good point.
You wouldn't want the, you
know, the three D printing
and inexpensive desktop, three D
printers have that, that textured
look where it's clear, each
layer has been put there
and it would take away
from Sometimes you do want
that, right. If you, if
you're saying, look, look, here
are the contours of this
shape. And you can see
how they, how the, you
know, like consoles on a,
on a, a geographical map.
And, and so the printer
gives you that for free,
but you don't always want
that. But, but yeah, so,
so, so one time this,
this, you know, do I
notice something new when I
get the three D print?
So, so there was one
it's called Hilbert cube, I
think will help it curve.
Something like that. This is
a very squiggly curve that
kind of fills up a
cube in space. And this
is there's. This whole area
of mathematics is interested in
space filling curves, which is
somehow COEs that are so
squiggly that they, they kit
every point. So it's a
one dimensional curve somehow, but
it hits every point of
a two dimensional square or
a three dimensional cube. So
there's some sort of strange
things going on there, but
anyway, so, so, so, well,
it wasn't hitting every point,
this three D print, it
was just sort of a,
an approximation of it, which
is, it looks a bit
like ramen noodles. And, and,
and I sort of, you
know, I I'd known it,
you know, I know I
knew if this shape for
a long time, and it
was always this sort of
rigid mathematical thing with lots
of right angles. And then
I get it and it's
real springy because it's like
ramen noodles. And I guess
I hadn't realized that it
was going to be like
that. It was, it was
a big shock. Yeah, it
was, it was, it was
hard in your mind. It
would, it didn't flex. Right,
Right. In my mind is
this rigid mathematical object. And
then the real, the real
world, it's got all of
these engineering problems and then,
well, right. That's a whole
other story that you, you
end up with a w
when you want to make
a model, you'll your mathematical
objects does need to deal
with gravity and, you know,
technical problems of actually printing
things. And then, so there's
a whole lot of sort
of engineering problems that sometimes
go into this, which leads,
it leads to interesting questions.
Yeah. So one of my
questions is how many of
these will I be able
to print versus with my
first, Which we just won't
be supportable. Right. Right. So,
I mean, some of them
are just not going to
be possible on today's desktop
printers. I mean, this is
sort of things with hinges.
Like, I mean, you can
do hinges on desktop printers,
but I've got models with,
you know, hundreds of hinges
sort of flexible surface that
I think will be very
difficult to do on a
desktop printer. But I've actually,
I've been surprised. I mean,
you know, when I was
writing the book, I, I
was sorta thinking my mind
in the back of my
mind. Well, hopefully people actually,
I was hoping by the
time I'm done with this
book, surely the technology will
have moved on so far
that everybody will be able
to print everything at no
cost. And that hasn't happened,
but maybe in the future,
but there's, there's a surprising
number of them that people
are having a lot of
success with. So, I mean,
that's well said, so all
of the, well, almost all
of the models on thing
of us and, you know,
somehow that's the point is
he put the stuff up
and then people print it
and show, look, I made
it, here's a photograph and
here are the settings that
I used. Or sometimes people
get back to me and
say, you know, could you
make the base of it
thicker so that it sticks
to my they'll play better
on this. Oh, okay. I
can do that. And sometimes
people, you know, modify them
themselves. And that's a really
great thing about, about a
site, like thing of verses
that, you know, it's sort
of built in to let
people share the things and
modify them and get them
working on their printers. So,
so some not all of
them, but quite a few
of them seem to work
well. And, you know, lots
of people are printing. I'm
working on printing. The you've
got one that is a
stereographics projection. Yeah. The, the
sort of, it's a, it's
a sort of sphere with
the top missing. And a
lot of people seem to
have done that. And I
was surprised Little vase that
you put in, and what's
interesting about it is that
it's almost like a puzzle
in the sense of, it
just looks like pretty vase,
and then you move the
light around and nothing particularly
interesting happens at cast some
nice shadows. And then there's
a moment when, if you
get the shadow, right, right.
It turns into a grid
and it's just impossible. A
square grid. Yeah. It's a,
it's a, it's a surprising,
yeah. It's a good, a
good payoff. That one is
sort of like it's, as
you say, it's a magic
trick, but it's real because
it's a piece of plastic
and a flashlight. Right. You
know, that we know how,
how these things work. So
I, and, and this is
a yeah, and this is
a illustrating a stereographics projection
is a particular way to
map a sphere onto, onto
the plane. In fact, this
is the, I, I think
the ancient Greeks knew about
this. It's sort of in
the same class of things
like the Makeda projection, right?
So the, the ordinary map
of the earth, well, it's
sort of out of favor
favor these days, because, cause
it, you know, Africa RPA
as much smaller than relative
to Greenland or so, so
things near the equator seems
smaller than they, they are
income incapacity things away from
the equator. So that's sort
of social regions, not to,
not to really favor that
map anymore, but anyway, that
aside, so the Makeda rejection,
all of these other ways
of drawing maps are ways
to try and solve the
problem of drawing the surface
of a sphere on the
plane. And, you know, this
is impossible to do without
breaking something. Right. You, you
know, if you get your
orange peel and you try
and lay it flat on
the, on the table, then
it has to crack. And
yeah. So Sarah got from
projection was I think maybe
the first or one of
the first ways that people,
the people forward to draw
a picture of, of the
earth on, on the plane.
And so it's in that
tradition of sort of mapmaking
mapmaking, but it's a, it's
a really beautiful, it's a
really beautiful way to map
things. It's, it's got a
lot of very nice properties.
It's very simple to write
down and yeah, I mean,
this is sort of a
really great way to see
it and to see what
the map is doing. Cause
you just follow the light
rays and you can do
it. I I've thought right.
The next thing is, well,
can you take a three
D printed, you know, sphere
with the continence and somehow
put a light inside of
it. So there's some way
you got to shadow this,
the Makeda projection. And unfortunately
that appears to be impossible.
I wish it would possible.
I don't know how to
do that. That would be
amazing. I mean, that would
be pretty constant. Yeah. Be
classy. So people can go
to D print, math.com. I
can click buy now at
the top and they can
see you visualizing mathematics for
three D printing. They can
go to Shapeways. And if
they just Google for Henry
sacrament printing, you have a
beautiful website at Shapeways. And
even if you don't have
a three D printer, you
can go and order some
of these inexperienced, this, this
magic yourself. All right. So,
so at the website, there's
also, there's an embedded sort
of 3d viewers from Sketchfab.
So, so you, you don't
even need the three D
prints if you want to.
Well, I mean, you can
look at the photos in
the book, but you can't
turn them around sort of
that there's an irony there
in writing a book about
how awesome three D printing
is for illustrating things. But,
but yeah. So on the
website, you can, there's these
little embedded windows where you
can move the model around
and zoom in and fly
around it and get a
sense of what it is.
Maybe not quite as good,
a sense as if you're
holding it in your hands,
but still pretty good. Cool.
Well, thank you so much
for chatting with me today.
Great. This was fun. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.